So this I have broken out
into three sub chapters,
because they're kind of three different
ways of looking at performance.
The first one that we'll
cover is network performance.
That's going to be like things coming
over the network to from your servers to
your users.
The second section is going
to be CPU performance.
So that's going to be
like the page has loaded.
And now the users doing stuff and
how slow is that?
And the third one is gonna be memory.
And that one is also gonna
be kinda on page load.
But it's gonna be how much memory your app
is allocating, do you have a memory leak,
things like that.
So those would be
the kinda three sections.
So we start with network performance.
One thing I always find really
interesting Is every time some company
does a study the metrics
they come back on for
how important page load is
always kind of blows my mind.
So I have like a couple of things that
I was just able to find where it's like
Walmart Amazon,
finding that 1% increase in earnings for
every 100 milliseconds that could
shave off their webpage speed.
Is like, hugely substantial amount
of money, just things going faster.
And I think we all know it at
a certain end when it gets really bad.
You go to a website and it's like
spinning and spinning and spinning,
like I'll just go find
a different website.
But I'm always amazed that when you look
at the aggregate, like how many users
that you just lose, with even small
like barely perceptible slowdowns Yahoo
saw a 9% increase in traffic for
every 400 milliseconds they improved.
That's like less than half a second.
Huge increase.
And Google's as it loses
20% of their traffic for
every 100 milliseconds they take to load.
That one makes a little bit
more sense because you,
you really expect Google to be
instant like google.com, bing.com you
expect those to be Really, really fast
because you're not there to stay here or
there to go to another place.And then
these just interesting numbers like in
the one to three second range as
your page is loading people up.
Probability of leaving goes up to like 32%
as it extends to like one to five seconds.
It's like 90% And then bounces
just increased like over 100% more
bounces as you go past that 5% five second
range so you can really losing a lot.
You can get a lot of this info if
you use like Google Analytics or
something you can see how
many people bounce but, but
it's a little bit harder to measure
because Google Analytics like depending on
where you put it in your script, People
might even leave before it loads, right.
And so
it's it's probably even worse than that.
So that's kind of the importance
of this network stuff.
And I think it's always important to,
to have a little bit of like empathy for
your users.
This is really common where like,
you'll be at some big company, maybe and
you're like in.
San Francisco in the United States
on a brand new MacBook Pro.
And you're like my site is really fast,
right?
Like it loads like right away and
it's really good.
And then, there's like so many places
with worse internet connection and
there's so many people on worse devices.
And then you start thinking about well
what about people using it on mobile
devices on worse internet connection?
I mean, it really,
it really can be a very different
experience based on where you are.
And I think even people living in like
very modern high internet speed cities
like if you take the train somewhere and
you go in a tunnel and
you lose your connection,
like we all know That frustration right or
you're like at an airport, and all of
a sudden everything is crawling like.
So I think it's really
important to not just test on,
the maximum the best possible conditions,
but to think about your user base.
Again, with a good analytics tool,
you can get a lot of this like,
You actually have a lot of users
in this region or that region.
And there's tons of stuff you can do,
which is kind of what
we're going to be covering So yeah, we're
gonna kinda learn network terminology, and
then what the Network tab can do.
So if I go ahead and
I open the Network tab here,
we've sorta seen it once already.
And let me go ahead and click this cog and
disable screenshots just for
now because they take up a lot of room,
and then I'll refresh the page.
So Like we covered at the very beginning,
you see like this list in order of
every network request your app made.
And the bigger the app,
the more network requests you'll see,
especially as there's like analytics and
tracking code and
ads and all these images and,
everything's a network request.
So you'll see the name
of the request here.
You will see the status, again this
isn't like a web fundamentals class, but
it dev tools kind of taps into everything,
so, for those that know like network
status is like 200 is okay,
a 400 is usually like a client side error,
500 range is like a server side error,
all these different things.
It's nice to see these, they'll actually
go red when the error and error as well.
The type that it is documents, stylesheets
images all that the initiators kind of
interesting because you can kind of
get this waterfall view of like,
okay your document came in that
called a JavaScript file and
that called a JavaScript file and
you can kind of like watch it.
There's also a kind of a cool tip and
trick which is you can hold
Shift as you move around.
And when you hold shift over an item,
it'll turn everything
that item called Red.
And if that item was called by something,
it'll turn that green.
So you can see like this font here,
the font was called by network dot html,
that screen and it called two other files.
Those are rad.
It's just kind of a neat way of
like visualizing what happened.
You can also see the size.
And when this is cached,
like if you use compression and caching,
you'll see that on this as well, and
you can see how long it took to load.
And then you get this
really cool waterfall.
So this is what happens when
you hover over these here.
You get this waterfall, And the waterfall
like if you have a request that's taking
a really long time, the waterfall can help
you figure out where in the process that
request is getting stuck.
And we'll cover that in a second because
that's kind of a pretty in depth one.
But it's also worth noting that if
you right click on any of these,
there's actually a lot more
columns that you can add So
you can add like the path, the URL,
what domain they came from,
you can add cookies that were set the
priority of it all those kinds of things.
And again, just to give a bit of context
here before we go into the waterfall
terminology we've kind of seen
like a script and or an HTML file,
we'll call scripts we'll call CSS
call images, all these things, but
it's really important to know
that on the browser level,
you get like a certain number of requests,
which is, I believe, either five or
six depending on the browser
that you can do at one time.
So if you tried to call like 20 images,
it would send out six requests, you know,
for the six first images.
And then as they come down, then it would
start filling like a queue basically where
I would call the next images.
So it's worth knowing right away that
you can't just do unlimited requests.
And if you think about it, that's where we
get this culture of like concatenating our
JavaScript files or
using CSS sprites instead of images.
Because there's a performance gain to
be had by having less total requests.
So for those familiar with that, who have
like bundled their JavaScript together or
who have stuck images into a sprite or
bundle their CSS,
that's why it's because we're
limited to the number of resources.
But the other thing that's really
interesting is that Rather than just going
down your HTML, and just like in queueing
everything it sees like script, CSS,
CSS, CSS, you know, going through,
the browser's really smart, and
it tries to figure out things that it
thinks will be higher and lower priority.
And then it goes down a priority list
which is like really great because
otherwise.
If you think about it, you could put like
an image tag and then a CSS tag right
after it and the CSS you need that styles
your page and the images like I mean,
it's you do need the image eventually,
but it's usually more additive.
So what chrome will do is it has this
whole system in place where it'll be like,
I think these are the top priority.
I think these are medium.
I think these are lower priority.
And that way you don't have to restructure
your HTML in a weird way just to get
things to load.
So you can actually right click here and
you can do priority and
it will add this new column.
And it's kind of cool to play around
with where you're like, like it views,
my HTML obviously, and
my CSS is the highest priority.
Then it gets to this PNG here
I've used that as low priority.
And then back down here, these font
files that are needed to render high
priority these two PMGs low JavaScript,
medium.
It's kind of interesting to see
how the browser thinks about it.
And it sort of makes sense where usually
the HTML and the CSS are like the vital
things, like get the site to display and
then JavaScript is like.
Probably somewhat important, but
usually it happens after the page
load the JavaScript kicks in.
And the images are like
the lowest importance thing.
It's just kind of
an interesting thing to see.
Does that make sense to
everybody that kind of sucks.
Six total requests at
simultaneous requests and
they're more advanced
than you would think.
Cuz Chrome and Firefox and
Edge all have a system to figure
out what the priority order is.
Let me know if you have
any questions on that.
>> Is there a way to change
their priority order?
Because I remember you can defer scripts.
>> Yeah.
>> And the head does that.
What does that do to the priority order?
>> Yeah, so you can override it.
You can You can make things
like higher priority.
Well, so
there's a couple ways you can override it.
Yeah, you can move things up to the head.
So like Google Analytics will be like, for
example, I want my JavaScript to be in
the head please, which will make
it a higher priority by itself.
You can also do things like you can
like preload images, you can be like,
this one's really important.
And then you can Yeah, exactly on the on
the other side, you can defer and
that says this is less important, right?
So yeah, so you can go in and
you can either preload or defer.
And you can also move things around
in the structure so that they're,
you know, higher up or whatever.
And that and that will override these.
Yep.
So the waterfall is interesting,
because I feel like it's largely ignored.
And then one day you'll have a thing like
this happens to me all the time at work
will be like, Hey,
Why is this taking so long?
And I'll be like,
it's this call this API call.
And then my boss will be like, well okay,
but [LAUGH] Whose fault is that?
Right?
Not that my bosses mean,
but they'll be like,
well, what's the problem?
Is the problem like the response is too
big, is the problem that the service
is too slow or that we're too slow or,
So this can be really interesting.
So it provides this really
nice colour coded timeline for
things that can really help you dive in.
And when you're making a ticket,
especially if you're like a front
end engineer making a ticket for
a service engineer, it can help a lot and
be really impressive.
Again, like one of the themes of this
is like Dev Tools helps you cheat
a little bit.
They can be really impressive where you're
like, Hey, this is a DNS issue or like,
Hey, this is an SSL issue.
They're like, Whoa, How did you know that?
It's like I'm really cool, so what I've
done here because of [INAUDIBLE] I've sort
of broken down the waterfall in order and
the colours used here are the same
colors that combatbtwo of these.
So, the first colors you'll see which
is at the top are white and grey and
those are queueing installed.
Queuing is exactly what
we just talked about.
Either there's higher priority stuff,
or it's the same priority, but
we've already hit our 6 total connections.
So I gotta wait.
Or and this is very rare.
The browser is doing some work and
just needs a second, that's fine too.
And so then they'll show is stalled the
entire time that they're stuck queuing so
you can see how long they waited.
Then the next three are kinda green and
orange.
Those are like setup things happening.
One is DNS lookup.
So we all know that we were
crest like google.com.
But that's not a computer's address,
right.
That's a domain name.
So it has to go to the DNS service and
find what server to actually reroute to.
So if that's slow, that's something going
on with DNS routing, not not our company.
Then it sets up the initial connection,
right?
So the TCP connection SSL connection,
there could be a problem in there.
If you're using a ServiceWorker.
Like if you have a progressive web app,
you can see another orange bar for
ServiceWorker setup like
it's being bootstrapped.
And then purple ServiceWorker has been
set up, it's starting to respond.
Now green is an interesting one green and
blue are like the data has gotten on
the server and it's coming to you finally,
green is waiting time to first byte which
is a metric that a lot of sites use to
mark performance of their services, which
is you know, I say give me food at PNG,
and then I will my computer chrome
will mark when I get the very
first byte of data,
the very first packet of data comes over.
I can use that to kind of gauge how quick
my connection between the server and
the client are.
And then content download
is how long it takes for
all the rest of the bytes to get over.
This one's interesting because this
can be largely a client issue, right?
If I have a JavaScript file
that's like 100 kilobytes,
it's going to take a very different
time to download In that San Francisco,
you know, high speed internet connection
than it is if you're on the train, and
you're going through a tunnel or
something like that.
But it can be really nice to kind of
categorize things like the white and
gray means that too many requests, right?
And we're just the browser's just stuck.
Not even working on those requests, yet.
So you can kinda concatenate your scripts,
image sprites, all that cool stuff.
The green and orange is like stuffs
being set up on the service side.
So maybe there's like a hiccup
with the DNS registry or
the SSL some Something like that.
The waiting time to first byte is slow.
It's a service issue.
So you can go to your service,
you can be like, hey,
time to first byte is really slow.
Maybe it's a database problem.
Maybe the servers are overwhelmed or
they're just slow, something like that.
And when content download becomes
an issue, you can't just blame the user.
So you'd have to figure out what you can
do to make the content smaller, right?
If people are just you know, waiting and
this is something that we see Lot of
especially in this like modern world
where it's so easy to go shopping for
new JavaScript libraries, you just
keep adding them to your code base.
You know, you're like,
I need a calculator app and I need this.
I need that or
whatever the things get really big and
you'll see large content download times.